The President:
This week, we had two powerful
reminders of how we've renewed
American leadership
in the world.
I was proud to announce
that -- as promised --
the rest of our troops in Iraq
will come home by the end
of this year.
And in Libya, the death of
Moammar Qadhafi showed that our
role in protecting
the Libyan people,
and helping them break
free from a tyrant,
was the right thing to do.
In Iraq, we've succeeded in
our strategy to end the war.
Last year, I announced the end
of our combat mission in Iraq.
We've already removed
more than 100,000 troops,
and Iraqi forces have taken full
responsibility for the security
of their own country.
Thanks to the extraordinary
sacrifices of our men and women
in uniform, the Iraqi people
have the chance to forge their
own future.
And now the rest of our troops
will be home for the holidays.
In Libya, our brave pilots and
crews helped prevent a massacre,
save countless lives, and give
the Libyan people the chance
to prevail.
Without putting a single U.S.
service member on the ground,
we achieved our objectives.
Soon, our NATO mission will come
to a successful end even as we
continue to support
the Libyan people,
and people across
the Arab world,
who seek a democratic future.
These successes are
part of a larger story.
After a decade of war, we're
turning the page and moving
forward, with strength
and with confidence.
The drawdown in Iraq allowed us
to refocus on Afghanistan and
achieve major victories against
al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden.
As we remove the last
of our troops from Iraq,
we're beginning to bring our
troops home from Afghanistan.
To put this in perspective,
when I took office,
roughly 180,000 troops were
deployed in these wars.
By the end of this year that
number will be cut in half,
and an increasing number
of our troops will continue
to come home.
As we end these wars, we're
focusing on our greatest
challenge as a nation --
rebuilding our economy and
renewing our strength at home.
Over the past decade, we spent
a trillion dollars on war,
borrowed heavily from overseas
and invested too little in the
greatest source of our national
strength -- our own people.
Now, the nation we need
to build is our own.
We have to tackle this challenge
with the same urgency and the
same unity that our troops
brought to their fight.
That's why we have to do
everything in our power to get
our economy moving again.
That's why I'm calling on
Congress to pass the American
Jobs Act, so we can
rebuild our country --
our schools, our
roads, our bridges --
and put our veterans,
construction workers, teachers,
cops and firefighters
back to work.
And that's why I hope all of
us can draw strength from the
example of our men
and women in uniform.
They've met their
responsibilities to America.
Now it's time to meet ours.
It's time to come together and
show the world why the United
States of America remains the
greatest source of freedom and
opportunity that the
world has ever known.